TODO.md, before:

- change boss score(make it random in steps of 10)
- commit & update README for each one

- Adjust the aliens fire interval (increase it)
  - Adjust the random fire intervals (in `Gun.fire`)
- commit & update README

- make player be able to shoot only when there's no player bullets in the game
- commit & update README

- Implement alien set entrance animation.
- commit & update README

- Add animation for alien and player dying
- commit & update README

- Adjust sizes if needed
- commit & update README

- Implement mobile controls
  - You might need to change your approach regarding the keys
    - Idea 1: Actions instead of keys.
- commit & update README


- Improve view
  - Refactor it
- commit & update README for each one

- Make the assets, styles and so on (or maybe make something similar to the wall for the pixel art images)
  - Add images
  - Add sounds
  - Add font (vt323) (see htmlwebpackplugin)
- commit & update README

- Refactor the code
- commit & update README

- Read more about eslint, webpack and tsdoc

- Remember to try using webpack to load assets such as css and images
- commit & update README

- Use HTMLWebpack Plugin or something like that
- commit & update README

- Minify the code (look for an html plugin for that)
- commit & update README

- See more tags available for TSDoc comments.
- commit & update README

- Generate TSDoc docs
  - npx typedoc _path_
- commit & update README

- Update the code snippets of `README.md` file
- commit

Commit message:

Change aliens fire intervals and refactor alien creation

TODO.md, after:

- Adjust the aliens fire interval (increase it)
  - Adjust the random fire intervals (in `Gun.fire`)
- commit & update README

- make player be able to shoot only when there's no player bullets in the game
- commit & update README

- Make boss go from either side of the scene
- commit & update README

- Implement alien set entrance animation.
- commit & update README

- Add animation for alien and player dying
- commit & update README

- Adjust sizes if needed
- commit & update README

- Implement mobile controls
  - You might need to change your approach regarding the keys
    - Idea 1: Actions instead of keys.
- commit & update README

- Improve view
  - Refactor it
- commit & update README for each one

- Make the assets, styles and so on (or maybe make something similar to the wall for the pixel art images)
  - Add images
  - Add sounds
  - Add font (vt323) (see htmlwebpackplugin)
- commit & update README

- Refactor the code
- commit & update README

- Read more about eslint, webpack and tsdoc

- Remember to try using webpack to load assets such as css and images
- commit & update README

- Use HTMLWebpack Plugin or something like that
- commit & update README

- Minify the code (look for an html plugin for that)
- commit & update README

- See more tags available for TSDoc comments.
- commit & update README

- Generate TSDoc docs
  - npx typedoc _path_
- commit & update README

- Update the code snippets of `README.md` file
- commit
